it all started in early 20th century
france
they introduced the idea of some fancy
french word
basically eating small amounts of
beautifully served food
5 10 15 up to 20 courses
in one meal you could try soups
appetizers pastries pastas rizzutos
all that good stuff when you go to a
restaurant to try a new dish
it stops tasting life-changing after
about the tenth mouthful
when you're only given a few bites worth
you somehow
appreciate the taste more luxury
restaurants
always try to be as different as they
can from cheaper places
they've got elegant interiors expensive
cutlery
and small portions the opposite of what
you get at your regular diner
it makes the meal more unusual that's
why it's more memorable
truffles caviar all those fancy schmancy
ingredients cost a lot
and deep down you know that so when you
see them bring a tiny plate with a tiny
serving your brain's happy it's logical
somehow
how would you feel if you ordered a
cheap plate of something fancy
and it was huge you'd be weirded out
wondering if the quality was really low
or something
luxury restaurants get their ingredients
from various places
it's not really a one-stop shop thing
that adds up fast
a bigger portion would be so expensive
even for the wealthiest customers
most fancy restaurants have at least
three to six course meals
at some you might get up to 30. you
wouldn't be able to try them all if they
were regular size
and if they keep the portion sizes down
you'll have room for dessert and a fancy
coffee
which means extra money for the
restaurant it's all designed to give you
the
limited edition vibe you're always more
likely to appreciate something that's
rare and exclusive
a mountain of pasta is something you can
cook at home any old time
some strands of multi-colored pasta
spread across a plate of exotic veggies
that's got food selfie written all over
it
now gourmet chefs don't just cook they
create
edible works of art and it's a lot
easier to make a masterpiece with fewer
things on the plate
the more you slap on there the more
it'll look like that meal you cook when
you're just trying to empty out your
fridge
and for the customer it's not easy to
look elegant when you're trying to shove
a huge burger in your mouth
when you're eating your tiny portion at
a fancy table wearing nice clothes
you can't not look elegant some
restaurants are switching it up
offering regular and smaller size meal
options
it's perfect if you can't eat that much
or dieting or want to save some money
but it's not like the smaller portions
are going to be fancier
they'll just be smaller most restaurants
have dim
lighting and cozy secluded seating areas
to make you feel more comfortable
and relaxed and stay longer and order
more
you'll feel less guilty about ordering a
ton of expensive food
when you feel invisible in the dark
smells can affect your meal choices
vanilla and cinnamon make you crave
dessert
the smell of bacon might make you order
a bigger breakfast
lavender helps you relax slow down
and eat and spend more fancy restaurants
use
incense and nice smelling oils to try to
make you order more
at cheaper restaurants it's all
different when you sit by the window and
see people in sunlight
you're more likely to feel conscious of
your choices and order something healthy
and
sensible like vegetables wraps you know
that sort of thing
and you're more likely to order a full
meal because you think someone might
judge you or
something they put up tvs everywhere to
distract you
that way you're more likely to agree to
whatever the waiter is offering you
sitting at a high top bar table makes
you more alert
since you can't lean back and relax
you're more likely to order
eat and leave then they can fill the
table with
someone else where can you always find
fast food
at the mall and at any rest stop they're
hoping you just
impulse buy something even when you're
not hungry
just looking at food or people eating
can make you crave that burger
and restaurants pay big bucks to get
help designing their menus
they use something called power
positioning it helps you pick something
even if you didn't know you wanted it
whatever's on the top right of the front
page
that's what they want you to order
you'll always see the most expensive
ingredients
mentioned in the dish description even
if it only has one
tiny drop of it you'll want to order it
for that luxury vibe
some gourmet restaurants really do make
their specials out of the freshest
ingredients
the one they just got in that morning
most specials though
they're made from stuff that's about to
expire that way they don't waste as much
food
and watch out the specials at fancy
restaurants might cost more than your
new
iphone even the most luxurious places
can always cook
everything from scratch frozen veggies
zapped in the microwave
vacuum pack soups they dump in hot water
they might even use leftover
shredded veggies from the salad bar to
make tomorrow's soup of the day
when the greeter at the front door tells
you there's a 20 minute wait
they just made it up can they see into
the future
how do they know exactly how long it's
going to take for that couple at the
corner table to finish their pasta
and leave that specific wait time just
makes you feel more relaxed
plus it makes it look like the
restaurant's really well managed
the restaurant manager knows you're more
likely to order a twenty dollar pizza
if it's right below a forty five dollar
stake
you might also fall for the special
three dollars off dessert
even if it's still fifteen bucks it's
called the anchoring effect
your brain gets stuck on the three
dollars off bit and ignores the actual
price
when a friendly waiter invites you to
take another look at the menu
it's impossible to say no you naturally
want to please others
the waiters know which items to push and
they'll describe them to you
in the most beautiful way or recommend
them as their personal favorites
just try it ask them to recommend you a
dessert
i bet you anything it'll be the most
expensive one
the music you hear at restaurants
affects the taste of food
you're more likely to rate your pasta or
pizza as authentic
if they're pumping out some italian
opera jams
chips taste fresher when they crunch
super loud
and oysters feel saltier when there's
some sort of caribbean music going on
waiters always want to start you off
with a drink before you even open the
menu
to catch you off guard and if one person
orders a pricey drink
chances are everyone else will too menus
that don't use
dollar signs make you feel better and
more relaxed about spending money
and they don't use cents either the less
numbers you see
the more you're going to be willing to
pay you're more likely to order a meal
that has a long
juicy name like seasoned wood fire
grilled fish fillet
with our head chef's signature sauce and
uncle john's secret recipe fried
potatoes
i'm in hey sorry guys that sounds better
than
grilled fish with potatoes the first one
sounds expensive
and like it's a secret family recipe
restaurants always like to make meals
sound more authentic
that's why they're always loaded with
foreign words makes it seem extra fancy
restaurants get busy at lunch at least
that's the plan
to stop you from noticing that your
meals taking forever
they slow everything else down too
they'll keep you waiting for a table
then sit you at an empty table then put
out the dishes and cutlery
then bring you the menu then well you
get the picture
sorry to burst your bubble but you
aren't always the first customer to get
that bread basket
what's left from the previous guest you
might be eating that right now
when waiters bring you free snacks
they're trying to make you thirsty
all those chips and crackers are packed
with sodium
when you eat too much of it your body
sends a signal to your kidneys that is
time to flush out the system
before you know it you're ordering a
bunch of extra drinks